{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2761
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red16\green60\blue192;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c6667\c33333\c80000;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19040\viewh12560\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Project: 
\f1\b0 Effectiveness of American Public Transit
\f2\fs24 \
\

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Team:
\f1\b0  Liam Dubay | Sebastian Lopez
\f2\fs24 \

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 GitHub:
\f1\b0  {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/lodubay/transit-ridership"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 https://github.com/lodubay/transit-ridership}}
\f2\fs24 \
\

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Motivation:
\f1\b0  The public transit systems in American cities lag behind those in other developed nations, and the overwhelming majority of Americans rely on their cars to get around. Cars have many negative impacts on our health and our cities, including deaths and injuries from crashes, greenhouse gas emissions, air and noise pollution, traffic congestion, inefficient land use patterns, and communities divided by highways [1]. An effective public transit system is a crucial factor in reducing car dependency. With large transit project costs in the billions of dollars, it is important to understand the effect of the many aspects of a transit system on ridership.
\f2\fs24 \
\

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Goal:
\f1\b0  Train a model on public transit agency statistics from across the country that can predict ridership based on a variety of factors (e.g., what will be the effect of a 10% increase in maintenance costs?)
\f2\fs24 \
\

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Data:
\f1\b0  The {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.transit.dot.gov/ntd"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 National Transit Database}} (NTD) has data for every publicly-funded transit agency in the U.S. dating back over 20 years. We will focus on ridership data from 2019, as COVID depressed transit ridership nationwide, and in many cities it hasn\'92t yet recovered. We\'92ll need to incorporate some statistics from previous years, such as capital improvement funding, as many large transit projects take years to complete. We will group transit agencies by city size, as transit solutions for small, medium, and large cities may differ.
\f2\fs24 \
\

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Stakeholders:
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
City public transit agencies looking to improve ridership\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
City and state governments trying to best allocate funding for projects\
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Involved citizens who push for better transit\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \

\f0\b\fs29\fsmilli14667 Key performance indicators:
\f2\b0\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0
\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Train/test split among cities and/or years of available data\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
RMSE of predicted vs actual ridership in test cities/years\
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8226 	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The model out-performs a linear regression on the ridership history alone\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs24 \cf0 \

\f1\fs29\fsmilli14667 [1] \uc0\u8203 \u8203 Miner et al. (2024), \'93Car Harm\'94, 
\f3\i Journal of Transport Geography
\f1\i0  115, 103817}